Project Objective:

The objective of this analysis is to discover various factors contributing to increased customer churn rate at the bank, and provide 
the business users with these insights which they can use to make informed decisions and strategize on how to improve customer retention and reduce churn rate.


Insights :

1.	Churn rate for male customers is 65% but the overall male churn rate is at 25%.

2.	In terms of those with credit card facility, the churn rate is highest amongst lowest credit score group of >400 .

3.	Surprisingly, the customers whose account balance are <=200k are the most churned in terms of account balance.

4.	Overall, Churn rate is very high at 56.2% for middle aged customers between 51–60 years of age.

5.	For the products, churn rate is high @ 27.7% amongst customers in the Prod 1 group. The age account and credit score factors are same here. 
	Similar situation for prod 2 =, however in prod 2, the churn rate is at all time 100% for customers between the 1k-1ok account balance.


Recommendation :


1.	The stakeholders could consider creating products that target seniors close to their early retirement age to avoid losing them.

2.	An incentive program could be considered for customers who have maintained longer relationship with the bank.

3.	In the same way, an exclusive package such as travel and vacation packages, subsidized investment portfolio, e.t.c., could be considered for the customers 
	in the >200k account balance group, to reduce the rate at which they leave the bank.

4.	The business needs to understand why there is 100% churn rate for Prod 2 customers with account balance of 1k-10k and how to get them back in business.


In Summary, age group of 51–60, people with low credit scores and those with high account balance (>200k) are most likely to churn. 
The bank should consider the recommendations above and other effective strategies that can address the findings, to better customer retention and reduce chrun rate.

Conclusion :

	In this Power BI analysis, I went through some major data analysis process to get the data from raw to cleaned and onto building the report, ensuring data quality across board. 
	Most importantly, it provided valuable insights into some of the major factors that encourage customer churn at the bank.

	With this report, the stakeholders can better manage the churn situation (specifically for salaried customers), by focusing on the key factors and evaluating the results of their 
	changes periodically.

